TELCODOCS-640: Optimizing CPU usage (#51562)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/enabling_encapsulation.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/optimizing-cpu-usage.adoc

[id="enabling-encapsulation_{context}"]
= Working with mount namespace encapsulation

As an OpenShift system administrator, you want `systemd` to consume less resources so that you can run more workloads on my system. You want to enable and disable this setting, and verify whether encapsulation is in effect.

== Enabling and disabling encapsulation

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

> * You have created the `MachineConfig` object.

Reviewer: Which object is the pre-requisite here?

Reviewer 2: I was confused by this too.  To enable this feature you can just create a brand new MachineConfig object without having created one in the past.

Author: Done.

.Procedure

. Add the following YAML to the `MachineConfig.yaml` file to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:

>         version: 2.2.0

Reviewer: Why such an old version?

Reviewer 2: The ignition version only matters if you're trying to use new features, and this one (enabling a systemd service) is a very old feature.

Updating this to 3.2.0 (or whatever the latest version is today) would not incorrect, but leaving it as-is is also fine (from a technical perspective anyway)

Author: Updated to 3.2.0 for consistency.

      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <1>
          name: kubens.service

  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:

>         version: 2.2.0

Reviewer: As above

Author: Ditto.

      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <2>
          name: kubens.service

----

> <1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for the primary node. Both <1> and <2> need to be set to true. If either are false, encapsulation will not be enabled. If you wish to disable encapsulation, set both <1> and <2> to `false`.

Reviewer: Primary node?
This line is confusing, why not just say this needs to be set to true to enable the feature on master nodes

Author: Writers have to follow inclusive language guidelines, including the use of master/slave terminology.

Reviewer 2: My understanding of the inclusive language guidlines is that if there is pre-existing technical terminology it's okay to keep referring to it.  Until we actual label the nodes differently in the OpenShift product, isn't it confusing to talk about "primary nodes" when these are represented in the product as "node with MCP role of `master`"?

Reviewer 2: But if we're consistently referring to "nodes labeled with `master`" as "primary nodes" throughout the documentation, here's my suggested edit: 

```suggestion
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all primary nodes.
```

Reviewer: Looking at the OpenShift documentation, the term *master* node is consistently used.

While I agree with the benefit of  using inclusive language, the change needs to be done consistently, both in the product as well as in the documentation

Reviewer 3: "Control plane node" is the preffered usage, see: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#control-plane

Author: In this case "master" is in the code. We can socialize the new usage, along with a nod to the code:

If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all control plane (previously known as "master") nodes.

> <2> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for the worker node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all worker nodes.
```

Author: Done.

== Verifying if encapsulation is enabled or disabled

> To establish whether of not encapsulation is enabled, issue the following commands:

Reviewer: Where?
From a debug container?

Author: Reset as from $.

[source,yaml]
----
$ sudo readlink /proc/1/ns/mnt
$ sudo readlink /proc/$(pgrep -n kubelet)/ns/mnt
$ sudo readlink /proc/$(pgrep -n crio)/ns/mnt
----

> This set of commands will return the mount namespaces associated with the Container Runtime, Kubelet and `crio`.

Reviewer 2: The first command does not return the mount namespace of the Container Runtime; it returns the mount namespace of systemd.

The Container Runtime in OpenShift is crio.
```suggestion
This set of commands will return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and `crio`.
```

Author: Done.

> If the Container Runtime has a different mount namespace location to Kubelet and `crio`, encapsulation is in effect.

Reviewer: Why is crio quoted and not e.g. Kubelet?

Author: Done.

> If the Container Runtime has a different mount namespace location to Kubelet and `crio`, encapsulation is in effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If systemd has a different mount namespace location than Kubelet and `crio`, encapsulation is in effect.
```

Author: Done.

> If the Container Runtime has the same mount namespace location to Kubelet and `crio`, encapsulation is not in effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If systemd has the same mount namespace location as Kubelet and `crio`, encapsulation is not in effect.
```

Author: Done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/optimizing-cpu-usage.adoc

[id="enabling-encapsulation_{context}"]
= Configuring mount namespace encapsulation

You can configure mount namespace encapsulation so that the cluster runs with less resource overhead.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

.Procedure

> . Add the following YAML to the `MachineConfig.yaml` file to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:

Author: Done.

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true
          name: kubens.service
  ---
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true
          name: kubens.service
----
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all master nodes.
<2> If `enabled` is set to false, encapsulation is disabled.

Create the mount namespace `MachineConfig` CR:

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create -f mount_namespace_config.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f mount_namespace_config.yaml
```

Author: Done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/optimizing-cpu-usage.adoc

[id="enabling-encapsulation_{context}"]
= Working with mount namespace encapsulation

As an OpenShift system administrator, you want `systemd` to consume less resources so that you can run more workloads on my system. You want to enable and disable this setting, and verify whether encapsulation is in effect.

== Enabling and disabling encapsulation

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

.Procedure

> . Add the following YAML to the `MachineConfig.yaml` file to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:

Reviewer 2: This procedure feels incomplete - Just creating a yaml file won't actually change the cluster.  Do we want to copy or reference the procedure from https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.html#installation-special-config-chrony_post-install-machine-configuration-tasks and just use that as a template for "how to add a new MachineConfig object"?

Reviewer 2: Or at least, if we're going the non-butane route, we should add a step that asks the user to run `oc apply -f MachineConfig.yaml` to apply the change, and then monitor the MCP pools (as shown in https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.html#checking-mco-status_post-install-machine-configuration-tasks) before verifying the feature is active.

Author: Going with the non-butane route: line 60 
$ oc create -f mount_namespace_config.yaml

Author: Done.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

.Procedure

. Create a file called `mount_namespace_config.yaml` with the following YAML to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <1>
          name: kubens.service
  ---
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <2>
          name: kubens.service
----
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all control plane (previously known as "master") nodes.
<2> If `enabled` is set to false, encapsulation is disabled for all worker nodes.

> Apply the mount namespace `MachineConfig` CR:

Author: Done.

> 

Reviewer 3: Add a continuation for the cmd block that aligns it with the step:

```suggestion
+
```

Author: Done.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f mount_namespace_config.yaml
----

> Example output

Reviewer 3: Nit: add a dot to the `Example output` title to add formatting in the build

```suggestion
.Example output
```

> .Example output

Reviewer 3: Add a continuation to the example output to align it with the step.

```suggestion
+
.Example output
```

Author: Done.

[source,terminal]
----
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-master created
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-worker created
----

> Monitor the state of `MachineConfig` while it is updated. This may take between 5 minutes and half an hour. After applying the `MachineConfig` CR, check that the status of the `MachineConfig` pool (`mcp`) has changed `UPDATING` to `True` as shown below:

Reviewer 3: Suggest making this a step in the procedure, or add it to a Verification section.

Also UPDATING is just the name of the field, the value is `True`. What about:

```suggestion
. The `MachineConfig` CR can take up to 30 minutes to finish being applied in the cluster. You can check the status of the `MachineConfig` CR by running the following command:
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mcp
----
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master   rendered-master-03d4bc4befb0f4ed3566a2c8f7636751   False     True       False      3              0                   0                     0                      45m
worker   rendered-worker-10577f6ab0117ed1825f8af2ac687ddf   False     True       False      3              1                   1                     0                      45m
----

> Prior to verifying whether the feature has been successfully enabled/disabled, we must wait for `MachineConfig` to be applied successfully across all master and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Wait for the `MachineConfigPool` to be applied successfully across all control plane and worker nodes. Run the following command:
+
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Updated mcp --all --timeout=30m
----
Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/master condition met
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker condition met
----
== Verifying encapsulation status

To establish whether of not encapsulation is enabled, issue the following commands:

[source,terminal]
----
  $ oc debug node/<node-name>
----
[source,terminal]
----

>   $ chroot /host

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sh-4.4# chroot /host
```

Author: Done.

----
Check `systemd` mount namespace:

[source,terminal]
----
  # readlink /proc/1/ns/mnt
----
Example output:
[source,terminal]
----
  mnt:[4026531953]
----
Check `kubelet` mount namespace:
[source,terminal]
----

>   # readlink /proc/$(pgrep kubelet)/ns/mnt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep kubelet)/ns/mnt
```

Author: Done.

----
Example output:
[source,terminal]
----
  mnt:[4026531840]
----
Check `crio` mount namespace:
[source,terminal]
----

>   # readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt
```

Author: Done throughout.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

.Procedure

. Create a file called `mount_namespace_config.yaml` with the following YAML to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <1>
          name: kubens.service
  ---
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <2>
          name: kubens.service
----
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all control plane (previously known as "master") nodes.
<2> If `enabled` is set to false, encapsulation is disabled for all worker nodes.

. Apply the mount namespace `MachineConfig` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f mount_namespace_config.yaml
----

> 

Reviewer 3: Formatting is being thrown off. Needs `+` just before the .Example output line to tie it to previous. Apply to all steps that include code blocks and exampel outputs.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74046732/206197870-cc91a25b-5665-4de9-91a7-78ef78109fe4.png)

Author: Done.

> .Example output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
.Example output
```

Author: Done.

[source,terminal]
----
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-master created
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-worker created
----
. The `MachineConfig` CR can take up to 30 minutes to finish being applied in the cluster. You can check the status of the `MachineConfig` CR by running the following command:
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mcp
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

Author: Done.

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master   rendered-master-03d4bc4befb0f4ed3566a2c8f7636751   False     True       False      3              0                   0                     0                      45m
worker   rendered-worker-10577f6ab0117ed1825f8af2ac687ddf   False     True       False      3              1                   1                     0                      45m
----
Prior to verifying whether the feature has been successfully enabled/disabled, we must wait for `MachineConfig` to be applied successfully across all master and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Updated mcp --all --timeout=30m
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

Author: Done.

> +

Reviewer 2: I see a lot of these odd `+` characters in the document now, and I think they're interfering with the output.

Author: Yes. We're wrestling with inconsistencies in AsciiDoctor rendering. WIP.

Author: All Example output blocks working correctly.

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/master condition met
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker condition met
----
== Verifying encapsulation status

To establish whether of not encapsulation is enabled, issue the following commands:

[source,terminal]
----

>   $ oc debug node/<node-name>

Reviewer 3: All your code blocks have incorrect indentation. Remove leading spaces.

```suggestion
$ oc debug node/<node-name>
```

Author: Done.

----
[source,terminal]
----

>   $ chroot /host

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ chroot /host
```

Author: Done.

----
Check `systemd` mount namespace:

[source,terminal]
----

>   sh-4.4# readlink /proc/1/ns/mnt

Author: Done.

----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

>   mnt:[4026531953]

Author: Done.

----
Check `kubelet` mount namespace:
[source,terminal]
----

>   sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep kubelet)/ns/mnt

Author: Done.

----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

>   mnt:[4026531840]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mnt:[4026531840]
```

----
Check `crio` mount namespace:
[source,terminal]
----

>   sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt
```

Author: Done.

----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

>   mnt:[4026531840]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mnt:[4026531840]
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/optimizing-cpu-usage.adoc

[id="enabling-encapsulation_{context}"]
= Configuring mount namespace encapsulation

> You can configure mount namespace encapsulation so that a cluster runs with less resource overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure mount namespace encapsulation so that a cluster runs with less resource overhead.
While mount namespace encapsulation is a Technology Preview feature, it is disabled by default, and must be manually enabled.
```

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

* You have logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a file called `mount_namespace_config.yaml` with the following YAML to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <1>
          name: kubens.service
  ---
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <2>
          name: kubens.service
----
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all control plane (previously known as "master") nodes.

> <2> If `enabled` is set to false, encapsulation is disabled for all worker nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all worker nodes.
```

Reviewer 2: We should add an additional note here that while this feature is in Technology Preview, the feature is disabled by default, and must be manually enabled.

Author: Done.

. Apply the mount namespace `MachineConfig` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f mount_namespace_config.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-master created
machineconfig.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/99-kubens-worker created
----

. The `MachineConfig` CR can take up to 30 minutes to finish being applied in the cluster. You can check the status of the `MachineConfig` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mcp
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master   rendered-master-03d4bc4befb0f4ed3566a2c8f7636751   False     True       False      3              0                   0                     0                      45m
worker   rendered-worker-10577f6ab0117ed1825f8af2ac687ddf   False     True       False      3              1                   1
----

> . Wait for `MachineConfig` to be applied successfully across all master and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Wait for the `MachineConfig` CR to be applied successfully across all master and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Updated mcp --all --timeout=30m
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/master condition met
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker condition met
----

.Verification

> To establish whether of not encapsulation is enabled, run the following commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To establish whether or not encapsulation is enabled, run the following commands:
```

Author: Done.

master   rendered-master-03d4bc4befb0f4ed3566a2c8f7636751   False     True       False      3              0                   0                     0                      45m
worker   rendered-worker-10577f6ab0117ed1825f8af2ac687ddf   False     True       False      3              1                   1
----

. Wait for the `MachineConfig` CR to be applied successfully across all control plane and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Updated mcp --all --timeout=30m
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/master condition met
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker condition met
----

.Verification

To establish whether or not encapsulation is enabled, run the following commands:

. Open a debug shell to the cluster host and open a `chroot` session:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name>
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# chroot /host
----

. Check systemd mount namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/1/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531953]
----

> . Check Kubelet mount namespace:

Reviewer 2: Kubelet is the name of the software, and kubelet is the name of the executable.  We probably want Kubelet most places in this document except in code blocks.

Author: Done.

Reviewer 3: I had to check becuase I was wondering about this in another PR: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#kubelet

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep kubelet)/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531840]
----

> . Check `crio` mount namespace:

Author: Thanks. I've been wondering about that. Our style guide doesn't have guidelines for crio usage.

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531840]
----
+

> These commands return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and the container runtime. In OpenShift, this is `crio`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These commands return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and the container runtime. In OpenShift, the container runtime is CRI-O.
```
```suggestion
These commands return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and the container runtime. In OpenShift, this is `crio`.
```
```suggestion
These commands return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and the container runtime. In OpenShift, this is `crio`.
```

Author: Done.

+

> Encapsulation is in effect if kubelet and `crio` have a different mount namespace location to systemd. This is the case in the above example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Encapsulation is in effect if Kubelet and CRI-O have a different mount namespace location to systemd. This is the case in the above example.
```
```suggestion
Encapsulation is in effect if kubelet and `crio` have a different mount namespace location to systemd. This is the case in the above example.
```
```suggestion
Encapsulation is in effect if kubelet and `crio` have a different mount namespace location to systemd. This is the case in the above example.
```

Author: Done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/optimizing-cpu-usage.adoc

[id="enabling-encapsulation_{context}"]
= Configuring mount namespace encapsulation

You can configure mount namespace encapsulation so that a cluster runs with less resource overhead.

> As mount namespace encapsulation is a Technology Preview feature, it is disabled by default, and must be manually enabled.

Author: Done.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

* You have logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a file called `mount_namespace_config.yaml` with the following YAML to control whether encapsulation is enabled or disabled:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
    name: 99-kubens-master
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <1>
          name: kubens.service
  ---
  apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MachineConfig
  metadata:
    labels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
    name: 99-kubens-worker
  spec:
    config:
      ignition:
        version: 3.2.0
      systemd:
        units:
        - enabled: true <2>
          name: kubens.service
----
<1> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all control plane (also known as "master") nodes.

> <2> If `enabled` is set to true, encapsulation is in effect for all worker nodes.

Author: Done. Went with "(in the role of `master`)" as suggested.

> . Apply the mount namespace `MachineConfig` CR:

Author: Done.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mcp
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master   rendered-master-03d4bc4befb0f4ed3566a2c8f7636751   False     True       False      3              0                   0                     0                      45m
worker   rendered-worker-10577f6ab0117ed1825f8af2ac687ddf   False     True       False      3              1                   1
----

. Wait for the `MachineConfig` CR to be applied successfully across all control plane and worker nodes. This can be done as follows:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Updated mcp --all --timeout=30m
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/master condition met
machineconfigpool.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker condition met
----

.Verification

To establish whether or not encapsulation is enabled, run the following commands:

> . Open a debug shell to the cluster host and open a `chroot` session:

Author: Done.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name>
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# chroot /host
----

. Check systemd mount namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/1/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531953]
----

. Check Kubelet mount namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep kubelet)/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531840]
----

. Check CRI-O mount namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-4.4# readlink /proc/$(pgrep crio)/ns/mnt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
mnt:[4026531840]
----
+

> These commands return the mount namespaces associated with systemd, Kubelet and the container runtime. In OpenShift, the container runtime is CRI-O.

Author: Done.
